
Life
====

Studio Classroom
----------------

Studio Classroom magazine is meant for non-English folks, which help improve
English skills. I touched it around 10 years ago when I am a student. Again,
pick it up, I encourage myselft to insist on English learning till it become
my second language.

### 2011-07-01

SIGN LANGUAGE-For deaf people, sign language is a handy tool of
communication
2011-07-01 SC

(Music).

Hi, friends.

Welcome to Studio Classroom Worldwide.

My name is Steve.

Thanks for joining us.

Our LANGUAGE lesson this month delves into the silent world of Sign Language.

One dictionary defines ”sign language” as any means of communication through
bodily movements rather than through speech.

This means that sign language could be as simple as someone shaking their head
to mean no, or as complicated as using a developed system of hand and arm
movements to express ideas, opinions and emotions.

For deaf people, sign language is an essential form of communication.

Let's learn more about it as we open our Studio Classroom magazines to page 12
and read Sign Language.

Sign Language.

For deaf people, sign language is a handy tool of communication.
Communication is part of what makes us human.  We all have a basic need to
communicate our ideas to others.  We also want to comprehend what others are
trying to say to us.  Most of the time, people use a spoken language to
communicate.  But for deaf people, communication presents special challenges.
Since most deaf people cannot easily use a spoken language, they use a visual
form of communication - sign language.  Contrary to popular belief, sign
language is not a universal language.  Deaf people in different countries ”
speak” different sign languages.

Hello, welcome to Studio Classroom Worldwide.

My name is Ryan.

And my name is Kaylah.

You know, today we're talking about ”Sign Language,” which explains why Ryan
and I just signed our names.

Now sign language is kind of different than what we usually think of language.

Usually we think of language as being spoken, but that's not the case here.

Right. We're using sign language.

The word ”sign” in sign language means something that you can see that means
something else.

So when we are using our hands, you can see us make motions with our hands,
but it actually means something else.

It is actually a language.

In fact, it is a language for deaf people, and sign language is a ”handy” tool
of communication.

That's right.

And deaf people are people that cannot hear.

So if you cannot hear, you cannot hear a spoken language.

So they use sign language as a handy tool.

Now that's a play on words.

Yes, it is.

When you say something is handy, it means it is useful.

But we're also using our hands in sign language, so that is actually a very
clever word usage.

It is. So this is a way of communication.

Well, communication is a part of what makes us human.

And that's our Grammar on the Go sentence. So we'll talk about it after we see
Liz.

Hello, friends.

How are you?

My name is Liz and it's time for Grammar on the Go.

I'm in London today and there are some phone booths behind me.

We don't see too many of those these days now that we have cell phones and the
Internet.

Our forms of communication may have changed a lot, but as the writer of
today's article puts it:

Communication is part of what makes us human.

That's our Grammar Tip sentence, and today we're looking at the sentence
pattern:

something is part of what makes someone or something + adjective.

We use this pattern when we want to talk about how a certain quality is one of
the main reasons or causes of why something is the way it is.

In the case of today's sentence, there are many things that make us human, and
communication is one of them.

Communication is part of what makes us human.

Let's have a look at some other example sentences.

Cooking food over an open fire is part of what makes camping fun.

Or: Living in a dorm is part of what makes college life unique.

So give this sentence pattern a try.

Think of something that is the way it is because of many reasons, then pick
out one of these reasons and put it in the beginning of this sentence.

If you'd like to see some more example sentences, they are available in
today's Grammar Tip section in your Studio Classroom magazine.

That's it for today.

This is Liz with Grammar on the Go, signing off, in London.

Bye-bye.

Thank you, Liz.

So as people, we all want to use communication.

And communication is when we share our ideas with other people or listen to
other people's ideas ourselves.

And so we all want to use communication.

We all have a basic need to communicate our ideas to others.

That's right.

We talk about a basic need.

That means it is something that is very simple, very low level.

So maybe basic needs in life would be water.

You have to have it.

But it seems to be very simple.

It's not juice.

It's not something that is very large or exciting.

You need something very simple, but it is required.

So communication is required among humans.

We also want to comprehend what others are trying to say to us.

Yes. And when we ”comprehend” something, it means that we understand it
completely.

So when we are communicating with somebody, we are not just hearing what they
are saying or maybe seeing what they are saying,

but we also want to understand exactly what they mean and comprehend what they
are trying to say to us.

I know often in class, it is hard to comprehend what the teacher is saying.

Sometimes it's difficult.

That's when we ask a question until we completely understand, until we
completely comprehend what they're talking about.

Well, most of the time people use a spoken language to communicate.

But for deaf people, communication presents special challenges.

If you are deaf, you cannot hear.

It would be hard to speak.

That's right, because when we are speaking languages such as Chinese or
English, or maybe Spanish or any other language that uses your voice,
it can be very difficult, or even impossible, for someone who is deaf to
understand what you're saying.

And so they... it's a special challenge for them, or presents special
challenges for them.

That's right.

When we say something is presented, that means it is brought before you, it is
brought to you.

So if we say it presents a problem, it is something they have to deal with, a
problem that they will have to face.

Well, since most deaf people cannot easily use a spoken language, they use a
visual form of communication that is called sign language.

Now when something is ”visual,” that means we can see it.

Yeah, you can see it or has something to do with being seen.

So rather than speaking a language, we would use our hands or our bodies to
communicate instead of talking.

And so that's what sign language is.

It's the ability to communicate using something visual, being able to see
rather than speaking.

And contrary to popular belief, sign language is not a universal language.

Now Ryan, this is something I've definitely heard of before.

People think that if they can read and use sign language, they'll be able to
communicate with anyone all over the world, but that is not true.

That's true. There are actually different kinds of sign languages.

As we will learn, deaf people speak... different people... different people in
countries speak different sign languages.

So there are more than one kind of sign language in different countries, or
sometimes even in the same country.

Yes. And when we talk about something have been a universal language,
something is universal means anyone in the world would be able to understand
it.

But that's not the case.

Deaf people in different countries ”speak” different sign languages.

And we have ”speak” here in quotations.

That means it's not really spoken, but that is how they communicate.

It is still with their hands.

It is still a form of sign language.

Well, we will keep talking about sign language after the break.

But before we go, let's see what Ken and Rachel are talking about in the Chat
Room.

Hey, Rachel, I've been meaning to ask you, have you found the car you wanted
to buy?

Well, not yet, I mean, we test drove a Toyota somebody was selling.

But so far we've only had a verbal contract with the seller.

A verbal contract? Aren't all contracts verbal?

No, most contracts are written, but some are verbal, or spoken.

So a verbal contract is a spoken agreement?

Yes, that's right.

But I've always thought that ”verbal” meant written with words, whereas ”oral”
meant spoken with the mouth?

Now some grammar teachers may agree with you.

But in common usage, ”verbal” is just another word for oral.

So the two words have the same meaning?

Well, in common or popular usage, yes.

But we should still make a distinction between the two.

”Orally” means by mouth and ”verbally” means with words.

So you cannot take medicine verbally.

And neither does the GPS in my car provide instructions orally.

Oh, because even though you hear the GPS ”speak,” the words did not come from
a human mouth.

You got it.

So can I say verbal is spoken or written, and oral is spoken or swallowed?

Yes, that's a good distinction to make.

Well, thanks.

So from now on, I know that a verbal contract is a spoken agreement.

Right. Now don't say an oral contract, or people might think you're going to
swallow it.

Oh, that wouldn't be good.

(Chinese).

OK, I hope you had a good break, everyone.

Welcome back.

The first systematized sign language for deaf people was developed in France
in the mid 1700s.

In 1816, that system was taken to the United States and formed the basis for
American Sign Language.

As we've just learned, each national sign language system is different.

Each has its own patterns of speech and grammar rules, just like in a spoken
language.

Even in America, Australia and the United Kingdom, where English is the
dominant language, the three countries' sign languages are very different from
one another.

OK, let's resume our lesson by picking up the reading down on line 14.

Sign Language.

American Sign Language (ASL) is the preferred form of sign language among deaf
people in the U.S.  It has a grammar and word order that are very different
from standard English.  Some American universities even teach ASL as a foreign
language. Other forms of sign language try to represent English more
precisely. They use English word order and sign every word in the sentence.
One thing these systems have in common is ”fingerspelling.” Every letter in
English has its own unique sign.

Welcome back.

We are talking about sign language - a way for people to communicate using
their hands, using visuals rather than speaking.

Before the break, we were talking about the fact that there are more than one
kind of sign language that people use around the world.

In fact, sign language is not a universal language.

And one of the kinds we'll see here is called American Sign Language, or ASL.

And it is the preferred form of sign language among deaf people in the U.S.

When we say something is ”preferred,” that means it is chosen most often.

It is something that we most like or most want out of a group of choices.

So there are multiple versions of sign language to speak, or to sign, English.

But ASL, American Sign Language, is the most common form.

It has a grammar and word order that is very different from standard English.

I have friends, Ryan, in college that studied ASL.

Oh, really? Yeah, in fact, uh... it was taught at my university as well.

And you can learn American Sign Language, which as we just learned is
different from other forms of sign language.

And since it is most popular, or most liked, within the U.S. or among the
U.S., people can learn to sign Americans Sign Language in the United States
there.

That's right.

And it's very different from standard English.

Now when we say standard English, that would be the very common, very natural
way of speaking in English.

So exactly what you're hearing right now would be called standard English.

It is what we use every day.

Well, some American universities even teach ASL as a foreign language.

Now my university definitely taught it.

I had a roommate that studied, and now she uses sign language at her job as a
nurse.

Yeah, yeah, like I was just saying, mine taught it as well.

And that's a good point, you can use it at many different jobs.

There are many situations where even someone who can hear can learn sign
language as a foreign language.

And a foreign language is simply referring to a language that you do not speak
from birth, from when you are born.

And so you can learn English or Chinese or Spanish, any other spoken language,
as a foreign language.

But now we can see that you can learn sign language as well.

You know, Ryan, I think this is very exciting for all of us... hearing...
people that can hear, not deaf people.

It's a great way of communicating, and it allows us to communicate with a
whole different group of people.

You know, a lot of times people like to think that it's not very good, you
know, maybe they should learn to communicate with us in a different way.

But you know, it's very cool, and it's actually very good for your development
in your brain as well.

Yeah, there are many different uses other than just communicating with sign
language.

But it is also very useful to be able to communicate with those who cannot
hear.

In fact, there are other forms of sign language and they try to represent
English more precisely.

Now if you try to represent something, it means that you try to show it, try
to be the same as it.

And so there are types of sign language that try to be more similar to English
rather than ASL.

They... they represent English more precisely.

And ”precisely” simply means exactly.

It is exactly the same.

So they use English word order and sign every word in the sentence.

Now as you can imagine, that could be very time-consuming, which is why ASL is
preferred because it uses different patterns and allows you to skip words in a
sentence.

Because you are talking with your hands, it's not as simple as using your
mouth, using sound, so it's definitely a simpler form as ASL.

But they do have exactly precise English language as well.

Right. So if you want to, you can use that form of sign language to sign every
word in English.

But like Kaylah was saying, it is very time-consuming.

You saw us signed our names at the beginning of the program today, and it
takes a little time to be able to do it.

So it can be easier to use ASL so that you do not have to sign every word in
the sentence.

Well, one thing that both of these systems have in common is fingerspelling.

”Fingerspelling” is when you use your fingers to make different letters in the
alphabet.

There's actually a picture where you can see every letter in the alphabet in
sign language.

And every letter in English has its own unique sign.

So as Ryan said, we did sign our names at the beginning.

We can sign individual letters.

You can learn to count your ABCs with your hands as well.

And that is common in both forms of English sign language.

But that is all the time we have for today.

Come back tomorrow and we'll continue talking about sign language.

But before we go, stay and watch today's skit.

Hey, Hazel, why are you moving your hands?

I'm talking.

But you're not speaking.

I know. I'm talking without talking.

Talking without talking?

Right! I'm talking using my hands.

It's called sign language.

Oh, sign language!

Isn't that how deaf people communicate?

That's right.

Deaf people can't easily use spoken language, so they use a visual form of
language.

They talk with their hands.

That's handy. Handy.

Yes, it is, and it's fun.

Let me show you a few words.

Oh, OK. Show me some easy words.

OK.

Apple: you make a fist and you put it near your face.

Apple.

Apple.

How about ”cat”?

You make an OK sign and draw the whiskers of a cat.

That's cute.

”Bicycle” is just like you're riding a bicycle, and ”driving” is just like
you're driving a car.

Hey, this is fun.

Yeah.

I want to learn sign language too.

Hey, that's a great idea.

If you learn sign language, we can talk to each other.

Yeah, we can talk without talking.

Great!

(Chinese).

And I guess it's time for us to say goodbye.

Make sure you come back tomorrow.

Bye-bye.

Thanks, Michelle.

You know, sign language isn't just for people who are deaf.

According to the definition from the beginning of our lesson, all of us use
sign language at one time or another.

For example, a gesture is a form of sign language.

In that, it's communicating something through a bodily movement.

Signaling numbers with your fingers at the market, giving a thumbs up at a
performance, and signaling a baseball player to run are all forms of
communication without speaking.

Take a moment and see if you can think of any other examples.

Right now, though, it's time to say goodbye with a wave.

(Music).


### 2011-07-02

SIGN LANGUAGE-For deaf people, sign language is a handy tool of
communication

2011-07-02 SC

(Music).

Hi, everyone.

Welcome to Studio Classroom Worldwide.

My name is Steve.

So happy you've joined us today.

Now as early as the 5th Century B.C., there is evidence that groups of deaf
people used sign language to express themselves.

It was then that the famous Greek philosopher Socrates wrote about
communicating by the moving of hands, head and the rest of the body.

In the world today, hundreds of sign languages are in use.

Most of them have every element that linguists need to classify them as a
distinct, separate language, just like German or French.

Let's open our magazines now to page 12 and read more about Sign Language in
the right-hand column.

Sign Language.

Deaf people and hearing people have many strong opinions about sign language.
Some contend that deaf people should learn to read lips instead of signing.
They argue that deaf people who only sign are isolated and cut off from the
rest of society. Many people disagreed, claiming that ASL is simply their
natural language.  Educators debate whether American deaf people should use
ASL or one of the other varieties of signed English.

Hello, friends.

Welcome to Studio Classroom Worldwide.

My name is Kaylah.

And my name is Ryan.

We are starting day two of our LANGUAGE article today when we are talking
about Sign Language.

Yesterday we started talking about different kinds of sign language, the
language that is used to communicate with deaf people.

And we looked at how they are similar and different from each other as well as
how they can be used.

Now today we're going to talk more about how you can use sign language to
communicate with deaf people.

It is always very interesting to watch just two deaf people communicate.

And sometimes we feel that we are left out.

But that doesn't have to be the case, Ryan, we can all learn sign language.

And we're going to learn today the benefits of that.

Well, deaf people and hearing people have many strong opinions about sign
language.

So that... we have included all people then.

Yeah, whether you are hearing or deaf, you cannot be anything else.

So that means basically everyone has some strong opinions about sign language.

And a strong opinion simply means that you believe it very much.

You have an opinion, but you want to believe it very much.

Whether sign language is a good thing or maybe a bad thing, you might have to
see what some people believe.

In fact, some people contend that deaf people should learn to read lips
instead of signing.

Now when you ”contend,” that means you are arguing with the goal of winning.

So if you are just having a little discussion, that's not a... that's not
contending.

That's sharing ideas.

When you contend, that means you are trying to win the argument.

So people here are talking about sign language and... versus lip reading.

And they are contending, they want to win the argument.

Now lip reading is very common, and it's um, kind of complicated, but people
want deaf people to use it more often.

Right. When you read lips, it's very different from reading words on a page,
but it is along the same lines.

We're talking about reading someone's lips who is speaking.

Looking at their lips when they're speaking a language like English or
Chinese, and trying to see what they are saying even though you cannot hear them.

There are some people who can do that very well.

That's right. And actually, part of hearing, all part of hearing is reading
lips.

If you are watching a play or a movie and you cannot see the actors mouth, it
is definitely harder to understand what they are saying.

Part of that is the sound, but a lot of that is we naturally watch each
other's mouths.

We naturally look to see the shapes and it helps our brains put together, so
that would be considered lip reading.

Right. And some people argue that these people should be able to read lips,
that deaf people should learn how to read lips instead of using sign language.

And their argument is that deaf people who only sign are isolated and cut off
from the rest of society.

So they're saying that people who only use sign language are isolated from
society.

And when we say something is isolated, that means that it is separate from.

It is not near anything else.

So you can say a small town is isolated from the rest of society because it is
very far from something.

It is very far removed, maybe it's in the mountains, it's hidden away.

So when you are isolated, that means you're not near anything.

But how would this... they're not separate from humans, so what does this mean
for deaf people?

Well, it means they're not able to communicate.

If you are isolated from someone else, it also can mean you're not be able to
communicate with them.

And so if they're using only sign language, a lot of people do not know sign
language and they can not read lips, if deaf people cannot read lips, that
means that they are not able to communicate with other people, and so they are
isolated and probably unhappy.

That's right. They can also be ”cut off,” as another term we see there.

That's the same ideas.

It means they just are not near, they're not around that type of
communication.

Well, many people disagree, claiming that ASL is simply their natural
language.

And that makes sense.

If you are born deaf, you never have heard English.

You never know how the words are put together, so it's hard to learn the
shapes of the mouth.

So they claim - that means they say that it is true - that ASL is their
natural language.

Yeah, they claim that this ASL is the language that they are born with.

And if you claim something, it means that you say it is true; and so there are
many people that think this.

Now some educators debate whether American deaf people should use ASL or one
of the other varieties of signed English.

As we were saying earlier, Kaylah, there's more than one type of sign language
people can use.

And there's ASL, which is the most common, but there are also some that can
use every word in English, and so some educators debate which one should be
used.

That's right.

An ”educator” is someone who teaches.

And they can be a teacher, maybe they're a coach, but they would be considered
an educator.

Now there're different ”varieties,” that just means different kinds of ways to
use signed English.

And ”signed English” is any form of sign language that is using English as its
base language.

Well, this is an interesting argument.

It does make sense that educators, teachers would worry about people and their
language abilities.

We're going to talk more about sign language and how it affects our daily
lives and how we can use it more after the break.

But before we go, let's see today's skit.

A, B, C, D, E, F, G.

What are you doing now?

Uh, I'm practicing my ABCs.

Well, I can hear that.

A, B, C...

But why are you wiggling your fingers?

It's called fingerspelling.

It's used in sign language.

Hmm, fingerspelling?

How does it work?

Well, there's a different hand shape for each letter of the alphabet.

Can you show me some?

Sure. Put your hand up and make a fist, but keep your thumb on the side.

That's an ”A,” like apple.

Hey, that's an A. This is easy.

Yeah. Now put your hand up with your palm facing out and put your thumb across
the palm.

That's a B.

That's easy too.

Look! I can make a B.

What about C?

Oh, C, that's easy too.

Put your hand up and make a C shape.

Ha... That's really easy.

It even looks like a C.

I know, and D looks like a D too.

Hey, I already know four letters.

Only 22 to go.

This is really easy.

I can learn all the letters in just a few minutes.

Yeah. But it takes practice to put the letters into words.

Oh, can you show me some words?

Well, let's try.

How about A-T, at?

Hmm.

C-A-T, cat.

B-A-T, bat.

R-A-T, rat.

S-A-T, sat.

You get the idea.

Let me try again.

OK.

C-A-T, cat.

You're right.

I did it! This is easy, easy as A, B, C.

Yeah, it's not too hard.

But to fingerspell quickly and smoothly, it takes time.

So you keep practicing.

OK. I can spell.

OK, well, B-Y-E, bye.

Bye.

That'sgood. Bye.

Welcome back, everybody.

Some of you might wonder:

Does it take longer to communicate the same information in sign language than
it would orally?

One researcher's findings show that a story communicated through sign language
and then communicated through spoken English took about the same time.

Now this is explained by the fact that sign language is visible, and
therefore, the signer can express more than one piece of information at the
same time.

OK, let's wrap up our lesson by discussing why some people who can hear are
learning to sign on line 6.

Sign Language.

Whether you're deaf or hearing, learning sign language can be an enriching
experience. It can help you make new friends. If you're hearing, perhaps
you'll want to become an interpreter for the deaf. You can help them
understand talks or deal with medical or legal situations. Maybe you could
become a teacher of the deaf yourself. If you ever have a deaf child, you
will be able to use sign language as a tool of communication. Don't worry
that sign language is too hard to learn.  It really can be as easy as A, B, C!

Welcome back.

Before the break, we were talking about how some people think that deaf people
should not use sign language, but should instead read lips.

We were also talking about how some people still think that they should use
sign language because it is their natural language.

Well, we were also discussing how sign language can be used before the break,
and we're going to continue talking about that now.

We see whether you're deaf or hearing, learning sign language can be an
enriching experience.

So whether you are deaf, Kaylah, or whether you can hear, sign language can be
very enriching.

That's right. ”Enriching” means it add something to life.

It adds something very good, very... very rich.

And when we say ”rich,” it's... you know, we think about money or very tasty
foods or it is something very good.

So it would add something great.

It would enrich your life.

And that's true, actually, sign language has many uses.

One of which it actually helps you learn, it helps your brain developed.

We're going to talk about some other ways.

It can also help you make new friends.

When you think about deaf people in your class or in society around you, it
would open up the doors of communication.

You would be able to make new friends because you could sign with them.

Right, and this is actually true of any second language that you learn.

You are able to communicate with more people.

And the more people you're able to communicate with, the more friends you can
make.

And so learning sign language is very beneficial in that sense.

Well, we also see that if you are hearing, and if we say ”someone is hearing,”
it means that they can hear, then perhaps you'll want to become an interpreter
for the deaf.

And when we say ”the deaf,” we're referring to people who cannot hear.

And an ”interpreter” is someone who takes one language and translates it into
another language for someone else.

So if you've ever been in maybe a concert or some sort of lecture, and you've
seen someone sitting at the fronts of the auditorium, sometimes or the back as
well, you can see them there and have a spotlight on them so you can see their
hands, and they are signing.

They are an interpreter.

They are taking the spoken language and putting it into sign language.

They're from one language into another.

Now I know that I... if you're working in another language, like I do not
speak Spanish, but if I go to a Spanish-speaking country, I need an
interpreter, someone to take my language and their language and change it back
and forth.

Right. Interpreters are necessary in any language.

And so you would want someone to be there to help you to change what is being
said in one language into another language.

And that is very true for sign language too.

You want people who are able to hear and know how to use sign language in
order to interpret, which is the verb form of interpreter, in order to
interpret what is being said and change what is being said so that the people
who cannot hear can understand, maybe what is being spoken at an event or even
what a friend might be saying as well.

Indeed. You can help them understand talks or deal with medical or legal
situations.

This is talking about if you are a hearing person and work as an interpreter
what you can do.

Now I mentioned earlier I have a roommate from college who is a nurse and she
also uses sign language.

So she uses it to help other people.

You help deaf people understand medicine, understand what they're talking
about.

When she's trying to help them, she can always be called on at the hospital to
help translate.

She can work as an interpreter for the deaf and the hearing.

Yeah, and she's helping them with medical situations there.

That's something that is very necessary as a lot of times people cannot
understand medical terms and is different language, and so they need help
translating or interpreting for that.

And you can also help in legal situations.
And ”legal” simply has to do with the law, with helping people in the law.
And that is also something that is very necessary to understand what is being
said.

Well, maybe you could also become a teacher of the deaf yourself.

So maybe you can learn some sign language and become a teacher for deaf
people.

That would be very helpful.

I know as a teacher, it can be hard.

When you have a deaf student in class, you have an interpreter with them.

But it would be so much nicer if you could communicate yourself.

Well, if you ever have a deaf child, you will be able to use sign language as
a tool of communication.

This is just another way of using sign language.

We never know how our children will come out, we will love them anyway.

But it would be easiest if we can communicate right away.

Right. And here we're talking about it being a tool of communication.

It's more than just communicating, it is also a tool, something you can use to
communicate with other people.

And so it sounds like there are very many different uses for sign language,
many different reasons to learn it.

In fact, it might be something that would be good for us to learn, Kaylah, as
an additional language, something that help us communicate with more people as
we see many different benefits here.

That's right. And at the end of our article, we see an encouragement.

Don't worry that sign language is too hard to learn.

It can be as easy as A, B, C!

Now I know I learned to sign with just the letters of the English alphabet
when I was a child, and that does seem to be very useful.

It would be great to learn how to use the full language, learn how to use full
sign language.

But learning the alphabet, as we see here on our Studio Classroom magazine
page, can be very enriching.

Yes. And as you see here, they're... we're teaching you A, B, C.

Those are just the first three letters of the English language.

There's so much more you can learn and we hope we've given you good reasons to
try.

We hope you've enjoyed this article.

That's all the time we have for today.

Let's see what they're saying in the Chat Room.

Hey, Rachel.

Oh, hi, Ken.

What in the world are you doing?

I'm signing.

Uh, signing?

Yeah!

Don't you need a pen to sign your name?

No, not that kind of signing.

I'm practicing sign language.

Oh, ”signing” as in using sign language.

That's right.

Why do you want to practice sign language?

Because learning sign language can be an enriching experience.

Well, I'm glad you're into it.

I was hoping that you were signing your name so I can have your signature.

Why do you want my signature?

Because you might become famous one day and your signature would be worth a
lot of money.

Oh, don't count on that, Ken.

No one has ever asked me for my autograph.

Your autograph? What's that?

Well, if you want to collect people's signatures, you'd better know that word.

And here to tell us more about autographs is Doris.

We use the word autograph to refer to the signature of celebrities.

And a lot of people like to collect autographs.

Some popular categories of autograph subjects include presidents, movie stars,
artists, authors and people in the media and sports.

Oh, so we call the signatures of those people autographs.

That's right, Ken.

What about the signature of a famous movie star on a check or on a contract?

Do we still call it an autograph?

No. Autographs are for the hobby of collecting celebrities' signatures.

But if a signature is used for a business purpose, then it's still called a
signature.

I see. Well, thanks for the explanation.

You're welcome.

(Chinese).

Hi, everyone. I'm Michelle.

(Chinese).

Well, time really flies. Keep up the good work and I'll see you next time.

Besides sign language, some deaf people have learned how to communicate by
reading lips.

This is an incredibly difficult undertaking, especially in English,
where 30 to 40 percent of English sounds are distinguished from sight alone.

When you think about it, the mouth when it forms the sentence ”Where there's
life, there's hope,” looks exactly the same as it would when it says:
Where's the lavender soap?

Lip readers must rely on context and filling the gaps, which requires focus
and a lot of mental energy.

OK, friends, please enjoy your weekend and then join us on Monday when we look
for a home away from home.

Have a great weekend.

(Music).







